A resume is often your first interaction with a recruiter. ATS systems scan resumes before a human sees them. Claude can help improve formatting, readability, keyword optimization, and recruiter appeal while keeping every claim truthful.
NoteGPT helps summarize YouTube videos, articles, PDFs, and web content using AI, making learning faster and more efficient.

As a reminder, Prompt engineering needs to be clear, adding additional guidance, but not too much to constrict the model. Express the desired outcome and provide context specific enough to guide the model.
Often a trial-and-error process, it is an iterative process.
Best practices include:
  Begin with objectives and goals, give a clear purpose.
  Relevant and Sepcific Data Identification and Usage, only use relevant data to train the model.
  Find the Relevant Keywords: Keywords allow the model to focus on a specific output.
  Test and Refine your prompts: Evaluate prompts and continuously refine them.

What i did:
Uploaded my resume into Claude, used the Prompt template to optimse the resume for ATS analysis.
Reviewed my ATS-optimised resume and understood how Claude created a 1 page Resume.

What i learned:
The prompt template seemed to have significant amounts of context and prompt engineering. The Chain-of-Thought engineering seemed to be missing, not a huge issue, but significant enough to notice the difference.
On second check, there was Chain-Of-Thought reasoning, which helped me understand the process of creating the optimised resume.
The original resume was already created as I am searching for a job, so i expected it to be a relatively high score (prediction: 80%).
When i checked the Resume, my score was 52%! That blew my mind as I assumed it was very well done. I learned that certain parts of the resume tends to affect ATS scores negatively, misunderstanding that ATS systems are mapped according to certain keywords.
I learned that multi page CV's lose metadata and section context.
The optimised resume produced an ATS score of 88/100, very surprising but the silver lining is that i now understand that resumes can always be iterated and improved.

How i plan to use this:
I will use Claude to stress-test the ATS-optimised resume and continue to work on improving my understanding of prompt and context engineering.
I will use this knowledge to continue searching for jobs and not lose hope that there is always an opportunity to learn and improve.
